So if you could just introduce yourself.
I know where's the old tree now. If you overate that child.
Would do.
It's terrible for them.
Is he? He likes little ones, does he?
He is.
If you could just tell me your name, your age and where we are.
Right.
My name is Janice Partridge and we're at Splott Park.
I'm my age is 64.
Great. Thanks.
And I'm Anna and I work for Mancap and today's date is the 5th of October 2020.
So Janice, could you...
So the first time that we met, you recorded your story with Stephen.
Yeah.
So Stephen isn't going to be recorded today. It's just going to be you.
Could you maybe, can you think back to when we first did the recording with Stephen
and how your friendship might have changed or how things have been over the last few months for the two of you?
Well, the first time was at Central Station.
And we met somebody else who works with you.
Anita who took the photos.
Who was taking photos.
Yeah.
We went on the platform, we took a couple of photos, taking a few of Stephen and me on the station.
But then you did one...
And I think you did one in Mancap.
I don't know if you did one in Mancap.
Or was it at home? Did you come to...
I think we did it in the Cardiff People First office, wasn't it?
It did, yeah, in one of the offices.
Yeah. So how are you and Stephen these days?
We keep in touch, but we can't really see one another now.
But we keep in touch, we phone each other.
He's okay. But we used to have an argument.
If too many people interfered, you know, we'd okay by ourselves.
But if someone else said, no, Steve, he'd be off like a shot.
And I'd be calling him back.
So who used to interfere then?
Who used to interfere?
Oh, the other members of People First.
Have you got an example of that?
Yeah, because I met a friend in town.
And you were in 35 years ago from the Blind Institute.
And Steve split up with his girlfriend and he was a bit disheartened.
And he took it out on me.
And we were in live lounge in town.
And I got a puzzle book out thinking, oh, Steve will be all right.
He threw the puzzle book on the floor.
And my friend Rob told him off and he walked out and went train spotting.
So he can't handle any of the people telling him off.
But he's liking it if I tell him as well.
And then on a Tuesday, before I was meeting the people in chapter,
he came and he said, I'm sorry, Jan, about how I was.
Before you were there, he came and said, Jan, I'm sorry about how I performed the other day.
So I think he did realize.
He does a bit of thinking and I think he realizes.
So we were okay in the chapter meeting you did.
And we were playing it in chapter as well as people first.
That's when you were playing it back to us, our recording.
We listened to it all together, didn't we?
Yeah, that's when you were playing it back to Steve and I was chapter.
That was it, I remember.
So if you could...
So one of the reasons that we wanted to meet up was to find out how this last few months,
how you've been doing, but also how that's affected some of your friendships,
including your friendship with Steven.
So maybe if we think back to, and it's a little while ago now,
in the run-up to the first lockdown,
when before we all got stuck in our houses, what was that like?
Can you remember back to that?
It was funny sometimes, when I had the TV, the radio.
And they said, you can do shopping, but you can't meet friends.
And now it's this, if you go to a restaurant, you can't sit with friends.
And we always got on and it's strange.
You go to Queen's Falls or the restaurant, we used to book live lounge.
Before this lockdown, this double lockdown, we used to book a table for six people.
And now you can't even do that.
So you were doing that before this second lockdown?
Before the second lockdown.
So during the first lockdown then?
During the first lockdown, I could go shopping.
And then later on they said, you can't meet friends now.
But in this one they said, you can't meet friends.
So I think, well, who am I going to see?
I just got the telly at home.
So you live by yourself, Janice?
I live by myself.
During the first lockdown, did you see anybody at all?
Yeah, I used to go and have coffee with them in coffee shops.
But there were no coffee shops in the first lockdown.
You could only sit outside and you couldn't go sit in them.
And one day I was with them and I don't know, it was on a Monday.
And I felt you couldn't use their inside toilet.
I had to walk to St. David's Centre with Emma to go to the toilet.
And it upset my stomach a bit because if I don't go when I want to,
something else happens later.
I get upset stomach if I can't go to the toilet straight away.
So we had to walk over to coffee run and they let us use our disabled toilet.
But when we got to the first half, I had another stomach ache.
I suffer badly if I can't get to a toilet on time.
And in this first lockdown, that happened, but not in the second one.
So in the first one, because at the very beginning we were only allowed to go out.
We were only allowed to go out of our houses.
No, just for a walk, wasn't it?
Only shopping and medication.
Did you do your own shopping or did someone help you?
I always do my own.
I remember someone lying with my Iceland or the Mollisons for me in the first one
because it was difficult to get out.
So he said, Jan, when I do something, I'll get some things for you.
Tell me what you need and I'll do one for you.
And he used to do extra things for me as well as his own shopping.
And then I'd go round there and get them all for him.
And so did you see your brother quite a bit in the beginning?
More in the first lockdown.
I don't so much in this one.
But he said to me, if you go out with your friends,
you don't want me to go out with them and give it to him so I can understand that.
So that's why I can't explain to my friends that I'm not going out.
And they don't understand it.
They say, yes, you've got to get out, Jan.
You've got fresh air in you.
But I said, how can I if I can't?
I sat out in my garden with people where I live in the first lockdown.
So you've got a garden of you?
Well, it used to be of its ventures now with a few flowers.
But at one time when I moved there, they had a seat with an umbrella, a table with an umbrella.
They took that away and just got ventures now.
So do you share the garden with other people or is it just yours?
Well, we had our own ventures, but I did used to share the garden with other residents.
Do you know your neighbours?
Oh, I know them quite well.
They were done repair work when my light bulb was gone because my rubber can't get round to do it.
And last week I had to have filled those out.
It all happened.
My alarm card, you know that you press if you come and see me to let you in.
That went.
The light in the hallway went.
My fire light gone in case I can't hear anything with the fire.
All that went.
So I had to have them out last week to fix it.
Luckily, they came out to do it and everything is done now.
And they sent a survey to CCHA because in the first lockdown they weren't sending anyone out.
So what would have happened if you'd got no lights or something?
Well, I'd have to go on to the CCHA.
But they're closed now.
But they've told us now in this one that we can get the engineers and do repairs.
But in the first one you couldn't.
So if something went wrong there, you just had to wait until they could.
And I'm thinking, well, I'm glad now that I could and they did.
So that was the housing association.
CCHA or Adamsdown, Meteor Street and Tovo Court.
They say we are closed.
If you stay on, we'll get someone.
They told me the first time I have to get on the ladder and do it.
And I said, no, that's not on.
So your neighbours helped, did you say?
So one neighbour changed the small room light.
Well, this was the fluorescent lighting on the ceiling in the hallway as you opened the front door.
And he wanted me to get on that and I'm fixing it.
I said, I can't do it.
So I've never can't do it.
He's not allowed to move or get up.
So I said, I need someone to come out and do it.
So that's what he did in the second lockdown, but they weren't in the first one.
So in the first lockdown, you used to be in your garden, did you say?
Did you invite people to your garden?
No, we used to go down there and we could share it.
With the other residents?
We couldn't sit too close to them.
We had to find spaces on the bench.
I enjoyed it.
So who are you? Are you friends with your neighbours?
Oh yes, I get on very well with them.
Hello Janice, how are you?
And do any of them have a learning disability?
I think I'm the only one that has one.
Some of them are elderly, but one of them is visually impaired.
And I knew him, he used to go to the blind institute, Robert.
He's blind in one eye.
And I didn't know when I went out, they knocked the bin bag in the wrong one, you see.
So I didn't know he was visually impaired because I didn't know him after the institute.
So I said to the one there, a bag is in the wrong bin.
Now I didn't know this person was blind.
So she said, Jolly Jolly is visually impaired in one eye.
So after that, I was only thinking of what the institute had let us say.
Must use the right bin, must use the right one.
Some people were putting green bags in our bin shed and it should go on the corner of the street,
Arvid Duffy Street.
So our first warden never explained the fire procedure to me when I moved.
So I didn't know which ends of fire escapes were.
So the second warden said, Jan, I'll show you where they are.
Now you'd think the first one would have, but she didn't.
They get rid of them so quick, I haven't got any now.
I used to phone them, they'd call me, Janice, how are you?
They're charging us for telling them.
And that's not on.
So my brother said, Jan, text me every day.
So what shall I do?
If you're going out, text me every day.
And I used to go to my friend's and for weekends in People First.
But now we can't do that because of this new lockdown.
I used to do it with them at New Year's Day, Duffy, they had a couple of days.
Her brother is my boyfriend, see.
I found him through her.
They're a sister and they live in Kvalfa and they're members of People First.
So you've got a boyfriend now, Janice?
Yeah, after mum.
Can you tell me a bit more about him?
He's deaf in two and I'm deaf in one, one of them.
He's deaf in the two and I'm deaf in the one.
And I went to his house one night before the lockdown and I asked him for a,
an hand said, do you want a drink, Jan?
And I asked him for a Coke and he passed me my Coke.
What a compilation.
And I dropped a can of Coke and he picked up my Coke.
I said, no, I'm staying.
So where did you meet him? Through Ann?
Through Ann.
We had a dating thing and where I used to go to uni with Ann.
And that's when I met Ann with People First and she helped in the university
because of me being deaf.
The tutors would say, are you going to do this, Janice?
And the one tutor, she'd say to her, you have to explain she's deaf.
And if I never had my friend there I would have still been struggling now.
So how did you first meet, what's your boyfriend's name, sorry?
Andrew.
He's Ann's brother, Andrew Sowery.
Okay, so where did you, how did you first meet Andrew?
How did that come about?
I think that was Live Lounge.
Yeah, and I used to meet them in, not Live Lounge, it was called Bye Live Lounge.
There was a restaurant somewhere and I used to meet them in, and they'd say,
it used to be Bye Live Lounge.
I don't remember the name.
But that was when I first met Andrew.
And I was going to their house to stay for the weekend and they said,
we'll meet you, Jan, in this place, and so and so and so.
So I used to go there beforehand until I could be there ready to meet them.
And they were like...
Right, so on to part two of the 5th of October 2020 with Janice and Anna in Splot.
So Janice, sorry about that.
You were talking about, you and, about your, I was asking about your brother,
how he feels about your relationship with Andrew.
How does your brother react?
I don't know.
They all think he's just my friend.
Because I've let it be he's my friend because I don't want to route with them.
So I have told them he's my friend.
So who does know that he's more than just a friend then?
We're not really involved like getting married or getting engaged or anything.
That's not something you want.
He said he just wanted to stay as good friends.
So at the moment, are you just good friends or more than?
We're just good friends until we see a bit more of each other after this lockdown.
So before the lockdown, how often did you see Andrew?
I used to go to them to stay weekends before the lockdown, before the first lockdown.
And did you and Andrew share a room?
I used to stay with them.
They were very happy.
I had a friend, Becky.
And Becky used to see Anna as well.
And then I had Becky asking me, can she stay at mine?
She can't, it's only for me.
It's a housing place just for me.
And see Anna, we are trying to tell Becky that she can't stay at Jan's.
So one day she said, oh, can I stay with you for the weekend, Jan?
I said, no, Fex, Ollie, you can't.
She said that I said she can.
So I can't get through to her.
How about Andrew? Did Andrew ever get to stay at your place?
No.
No?
Because Anna invited me to stay because mine's only one bedroom flat.
And do you have a single or a double bed?
If I had a room with another bed seat in it, it would be all right.
But I got that bed.
But if my sister came over.
So do you share a room with Andrew at his flat or do you have your own room?
With him because he's your boyfriend.
I'm with him.
Yeah.
And so you've been together for a while, but at the moment...
At the moment, the lockdown's over.
So did you get to see him in between the two lockdowns then?
I haven't seen him in any.
You've not seen... So when was the last time you saw him?
I saw him for a while on the phone, but not seen him since the two lockdowns.
So back in March?
That's why I seen him, which was before the March lockdown.
And have you been in touch during that time?
On my phone I didn't text her.
But that's all we could do at the moment.
It's phone each other and send a text.
And so have you been more in touch with Angela than you have with Andrew?
No, more in touch with Andrew than I have with Andrew.
I'm sorry.
Because I was hearing on the phone.
Ah. Does he message and stuff or...?
I actually got engaged last year.
Her fiancé is nice, Kevin.
And he talked to me like that, you know.
Sometimes people don't.
And I went to an engagement party.
But this recce didn't.
And he got out that they got engaged.
And I said to Anne,
recce, you know why she didn't come to your party?
She said, because I don't want her there.
And I had to...
I didn't know what to say to recce, so I used to say Anne.
Because Anne is good friends with recce's fiancé online.
On Facebook, you see.
And she used to go to Anne's.
Now I wouldn't do this.
She used to go to Anne's with Steve and say,
can we both stay?
Now I wouldn't do that with someone's flat.
I'm not that kind of person.
I wouldn't take...
If I had a boyfriend and he wasn't Andrew,
I wouldn't go to my...
If I had a brother, I wouldn't go to my friend's flat.
I'd say, can he stay as well?
Put on Anne, you see. It wasn't right.
So she just turned...
I went to them once.
She invited me to meet them.
And go on the New Year's Eve and stay the New Year's Day.
And the day after.
She somehow found out.
Not from me. I don't know who she found out from.
She had to phone Anne's while I was staying there.
And she could hear me laughing.
I said, Janice is there.
And it was Anne's 40th birthday.
And I was invited there for the birthday.
And suddenly,
on the Wednesday night, on the Tuesday night,
in Royal Stephen and Becky.
I was thinking...
I said, I'd like to see if I could run over to her place.
I said, what are you two doing here?
She said, well, Janice is here.
Why can't we be here?
But I only stayed till the Friday.
I stayed for a week.
I went on Tuesday and stayed till Friday.
So on the Friday, I phoned Anne to say thanks for the whole week.
And actually, I heard Becky's voice and I was thinking,
I thought they'd gone.
No, she doesn't want to go till Monday, Jan.
Now I wouldn't do that if I was staying.
I'd say, OK, I've got to go now.
If I am, you know.
I wouldn't say, can I stay longer?
I'm not like that.
But if Becky is like that, very persistent,
very persuasive, so I'm thinking,
I thought they'd gone.
No, she don't want to go till Monday.
And I'm thinking, well, I would never do that.
If I was staying with anyone else, why is she doing this?
So you've not been in touch with Andrew the whole time?
Not the whole time, the first or second lockdown.
Only Anne.
Because he's not hearing me.
I just speak to her and I say, oh, it's Andrew.
And so does he not use text or Facebook or anything?
I think he's not used to it because he's hearing.
Right.
His hearing is worse than mine because he got two.
I just hope he gets this one.
And I think it's sad to have two.
But a couple of weeks ago, we were never able to do this
because I was full with wax in my ear.
And I went to this cafe asking for something,
not realizing I can't hear because I went to see Tony Moly
thinking I could hear his songs.
I could hear them, but not as good as when my ear is working.
So I go to Specsavers.
They can help because there's not many people in on a Friday
and it's lockdown.
So I thought we'd rather go.
And I said, they said, I went to Specsavers on a Monday with my sister
and he said, there's such a lot of wax in both ears.
It's why you can't hear.
So I went to have them done in this ritual clinic
because clinic over here don't syringe now.
So they do micro surgery, micro, and that's called 60 pound.
And I thought, well, I needed to get it out.
They say that much and I said, well, I needed to get the wax out.
And if there's no clinic doing it like they used to,
what am I going to do?
So I've never found this clinic online.
And I went up there and I didn't know how to get the wax out,
so I had a taxi.
But now I know, well, first again, my sister met me at the clinic
because I said, I don't know the lady and what do I do?
She said, well, Christine will be, my sister lives in Dade Court.
She met me at the clinic with my niece and then we met my niece
and went for a coffee and coffee won.
So he said, you'll have to have your fax card, Jan,
because it's costing 60 pound.
And people say 60?
I don't care how long this is out.
I didn't care how long as I got the wax out.
And I sat there comfy.
I always sit comfy.
I let people do it.
And there's some people can't do that.
I sat there letting them do it.
And then the optician looked.
He said, you use a bit of red where they use their things.
But he didn't want red to affect it.
It's not hurting or rubbing.
So it just went away.
There's lots of people who wouldn't sit there and have it
what I had done.
And I'm thinking, yes, but he can't leave it in.
Now one of my friends, Shahid, he has his microphone,
his headphones, and I said, they make you deaf.
I said, no wonder you're deaf.
And he says, I won't wax.
And he says, well, go on, have it done then.
So have you been able to stay in touch with other friends
during this time then?
Have you been all right staying in touch with your other friends?
Lisa likes staying in touch with.
I've been before last Friday.
I went to a house.
Well, you can't now, see, because we had the lockdown on the Sunday.
So the Friday before, Lisa's mother's nice.
And Lisa said, would you like to come, Lisa, to the house?
So I reached her in town and we get the bus.
And the other week, I forgot about lockdown.
And they said, oh, your first lesson would have to be in college.
I think, oh, yeah, it is.
And I go to the college, locked up, no one there.
I think, what do I do?
They told me go to college.
But then the tutor told me it would have been the lockdown came in,
so it's not.
So now I know it's online every Friday.
So the college, have you been doing that the whole time or?
Well, since last September.
OK, so how's that been working this last few months then?
So they were doing it from the first lockdown that it was online.
It was in Zoom then.
Now it's not in Zoom, it's in Google Classroom, which is online.
So I did Zoom last week because I haven't done it before online.
And so what do you use?
Do you have like a laptop or?
I use my mobile, but my iPad isn't working.
So it is not working and they don't get it done.
I'll treat myself to a new one Christmas.
I had this one on my brother's mate because he was selling his iPad.
So my friend got me the iPhone 5 mobile, which I use now.
But he's giving me his iPhone 8 because he got iPhone 11.
So we're going to try to get him through his house to swap phones.
So that's why I haven't been out with the others because I got to think of Stephen first.
So college has been all online during this time?
Yeah.
And you do that on your phone?
I got my iPhone from the July of last year.
And now online from these Fridays until the college.
Or lively we used to use it back to normal.
And how do you find it using Zoom and everything?
Well last week I found, I was getting it with Zoom and she said it's not Zoom.
Well, so she gave me the things that I got to do this week on my phone.
So I'm going around to Stephen on my phone so he can put them onto my new iPhone 8.
Stephen's ship brother?
Yeah.
This is Stephen, my brother.
But he had the same name.
And it felt the same way.
So this is Stephen, my brother.
I don't know.
He's going to, when I get around to see him, swap the phone and put this new,
she sent me the Google network codes and the ID.
And he's going to swap them over to the new ones from my iPhone 5.
Because more goes on the later iPhones than the iPhone 5.
Because they're trying to get me to have this COVID-19 NHS thing.
And that wouldn't work on my iPhone 5 because of the memory.
So he said it won't work on the iPhone 8.
How do you feel about having that app?
I said okay, he's getting it out of the, what he's doing, he's getting it.
We've got a joint account so he's getting this phone for me and buying it from the joint account we've got.
Your brother?
My brother, yeah.
So it sounds like you and your brother have been...
We couldn't go around there over the weekend.
She said, it's nice Monday, come have this meal and we'll do the phones.
So has your brother been helping out quite a bit during this time?
He has been helping out quite a bit.
So what kind of things has he been...
He's been getting shopping, if he gets shopping.
Are we keeping touch with you over the iPhone?
I thought, I texted him today, can you go to the clinic I've asked you this afternoon?
He goes to the clinic for his bandages changed.
So I always text him to say, I'll be telling Anna, what time are you going to the clinic?
And he said I've asked you today Jan, so I'll see you a bit later after your meeting.
So after this, I'll go to the shopping and then maybe after this clinic, go up to him.
After or before the clinic, depends how long he's in his clinic.
Do you get on pretty well with your brother then?
I do, yeah, because I'm closer to him than my sister.
I'm with my sister, she phones every week.
And then she might phone when I'm with the others, when I'm out with the others and I can't do the phone call properly.
Who's the others?
Like my friends that I used to be with in the first lockdown.
So who would that be? Who would you...
Mark, Emma, Rob, Shaheed, people from Cardiff People First and the Blind Institute.
And I'm thinking now, this one, we can't be with them, but we could in the other one.
So I think you can meet outside, can't you? It's just not inside.
You can meet outside, not in places.
Like this Tony, he sings outside on the haze.
So that would be different. And then we go sitting outside all in coffee one after him.
And there now, you can only sit outside, not go inside again.
But Shaheed told me last week that he told the lady that she let them go inside because he said,
well, we all live together. Well, we don't.
He's telling fibs, saying that we all live together, but they let them go in because he said that.
I wasn't with them, but he told me, I told them that we're all together, so they let us in.
I said, you shouldn't tell them that if you're not. You've got to do track and trace.
How do you find it, keeping up with all the rules?
I do track and trace by filling the paper out. I do a lot of scanning on my phone.
So they say you have these cards and you put them in and they're sent to the NHS.
So you just put your name and your mobile number and put it in the box.
They do that in the Wethersfoos restaurants. If you haven't done it, by scanning your phone.
So have you been in between the two lockdowns? Did you get out quite a bit then?
More than one lockdown than this lockdown.
So you said you meet up with people from People First. Are the People First groups still running?
Well, they all see this tone and then go for a drink afterwards.
So have the People First groups been running still?
They get interested. They'll need a dog.
Have the People First groups been running still?
No, they're not back until January. They didn't know how long these two lockdowns were going on for.
So lots of things like lunch and clever back February. So I thought, oh dear.
So how's that been for you?
I don't know. I'm going to celebrate my birthday soon.
When's your birthday?
January the 15th is on a Friday.
Same day as me.
Same day as you. Same day as my surrogatist.
I used to be my surrogateist, she's the 15th.
So you don't know how you're going to celebrate your birthday?
I don't know if it's lockdown, whether we're going to be over, whether we can meet or not.
So People First haven't been meeting online or anything?
They do Zoom, outstanding of speaking out, and on a Thursday afternoon on Zoom.
And do you go to those Zoom meetings?
I got the Zoom on my phone to join in from home.
They gave me the codes and the numbers.
Now yesterday our church meets once a month.
And they gave me the code, they sent me the message.
I was doing the code and they said, the code is not recognised.
Try again. And they said, your ID is not recognised.
I thought, oh flinkey neck.
How do I get in?
So I phoned someone and they said, well keep trying.
So I kept trying. I eventually got in to Causeway.
And I do a Bible study after because I used to go to Alfa.
That's right, I used to go to Alfa in City Church.
And that started back for a couple of weeks last night.
And then they do it for the first seven weeks next year.
So I managed to get into that, but not into the Causeway or the Bible class.
How do you find using Zoom? Do you find it easy to use?
It's OK, they do the meeting ID right and the code right.
So they sent me the IDs and the password or passcode.
And I got in OK for the offer, but not for Causeway or Bible class.
Or Bible study. So I thought, what am I going to do?
So I told the lady, I'll leave it and try again next week.
Because I was halfway through and I had no point in trying.
So she said, leave it till next week, child.
And hopefully I can get through to the mall.
So it sounds like you have quite a few groups that you're doing online.
I'm doing them online, yeah.
But none of those groups have been meeting in real...
They've been meeting in person yet.
And have you been finding it? How does that...
Well, I'm finding it OK if I can do the right ID and the right code.
Because they give me the times they are and the code and the ID before I get into them.
And last night it didn't work for Causeway or...
It worked for Alpha, but it didn't work for Causeway or the Bible study.
So I thought, oh.
So when that happens, how does that make you feel?
I told the woman, I said, can't get in. And she said, I'll try again next time.
And are you missing going to meet people?
I'm missing meeting people in person.
So you used to meet up with people and go and watch your friend?
Yeah, we met last week, last night at the 147.
But if I never had this Alpha, I would have...
147 is only the other end of City Road.
So I thought, if I never had the Alpha, I would have...
And I told my friend I will.
And then I found out I couldn't because of the Alpha class.
So I let my friend know that I wouldn't be able to.
For another three weeks.
So some of your friends are meeting up at the 147 Club?
They do, yeah. They still keep saddled for the Play Background music.
Because they can't have live music at the moment.
So they just have background.
And I found out that this Friday, the King's Castle,
they're doing Play Your Cards Right and Bingo.
And a bit of background music.
I wouldn't mind going along to that.
I wouldn't mind if it was a nice weather Friday.
Going along to see what it is.
Because it's in King's Castle.
I used to live in Canton.
And it's the King's Road, the King's Castle.
It's only you get...
I used to get the best in town and the 60 run to go to it.
So have you been during this time to any pubs?
If I knew who was going, I wouldn't mind going here, leaving this week to try it out.
None of the others like King's Castle, only me.
So I thought, go on my own. I meet people in there.
Go on, Linda and Sharon and all them.
So who are Linda?
And them in there.
So I have got people there, but not my friends.
Who's Linda and Sharon?
They're my friends.
They're people that go to the King's Castle evening.
So people you got to know there?
Yeah.
And none of my social friends like the King's Castle.
So I thought, well, if it's nice weather, I'll go on my own this Friday
and see who's there and I'll go on what goes on.
Forever Fridays.
And have you been to the 147 during this time?
Only before this new lockdown.
So you used to go then, did you?
Yeah, I used to meet them in town.
Who did you meet up with?
I used to meet Mark, Emma Vainton and Shaheed.
And they're all friends from People First?
Yeah, Emma Vainton is, yeah, and Shaheed.
And Mark is, he was young People First when they had it.
And they all text me, Janice, you're coming out.
Janice, you're doing this.
Janice, what are you doing?
And I'm thinking, well, my friend Ralph told me,
you've got to get out or you'll make yourself ill.
And I remember saying, no, in case I go round to him and he gets.
Earlier in the year he thought he had it because he came up in a rash.
And he thought he had it.
But he did the test and he didn't.
Because he came up in a rash with his legs, he thought he had it.
So they said to him, we'll get a test.
And when the test came back, I posted it for him.
And when it came back and I didn't know, it goes in the ordinary post box.
So I said to him, I collected it from his house.
And he said, I thought they went to the post office.
But they don't.
Things like that go in ordinary full of box.
And my brother said, no, not post office, ordinary full of box.
So anyway, I did it on a Friday and he got the results on Sunday saying everything was clear.
But he didn't have me, I didn't know what he was doing.
He didn't have me to go round and do it.
So I helped him out and he helped me out.
Until this lockdown.
Do you know anyone who has had it?
I don't know.
Some of my friends, they are illnesses and they've been exempt from wearing a mask.
So when people say wear your mask, if you're exempt, you don't have to.
How do you feel about wearing the masks?
I don't mind it.
First what my sister said was strange, but then I got used to it.
And they say, if you're out, you've got to go up to the counter with your mask on.
Now, they say inch off, they're left at the counter with your mask on.
You haven't got to leave it on, just put it on to go up to the counter.
And inch off, you've got to put it on before.
And now I got it because you've got to put it on before you get on the bus.
So I'm more used to it now than when my sister first mentioned it.
I got several masks because I got them in packs.
They do them in packs of two or packs of three.
And the other day, the strap snapped when I was in town.
So I went to Home Vagans, Foul Land, and in Foul Land, they sold them two in a pack for a mask.
I thought, who sells them?
Where can I get one?
That was on Friday when I was going to meet Lisa.
Not this Friday, the Friday before.
Have you and Stephen met up at all during this time?
Not met at all since then.
He speaks to me on the phone, Steve West.
I phone him when he phones me.
I phone him if I have any interest in him and then he phones me.
He phones me Saturday and Sunday, this week. I'm honoured.
So what was he ringing about?
He reads the news. He always tells me about what's going on, what they've said, if I haven't had it on.
Because I like challenge all the quizzes.
I'm answering the questions. I recorded them today for when I go back.
I record them with my mouth for when I go back later.
There's Corey Eastender, I know Eastender's tonight.
Corey and Emmerdale, two Corys, so I'm all right tonight.
So Stephen, you mentioned...
So, third attempt.
With Janice and Anna in Splot on the 5th of October 2020.
So Janice, are there any things that you would want people to know about this last few months?
How it's been for you and what it's been like?
Yeah, it's just been difficult since the second lockdown.
First lockdown I was seeing everyone and all in the second one.
And how does that feel?
It's been a bit distressing.
But if I never had the TV for the programmes I would have been worse.
So I'm watching the programmes on repeats on challenge.
I answer the questions a few things.
Well, how did you know? Because they're repeats!
Oh dear.
So you like the quiz shows?
And I like the dinner crochet.
Now I'm starting to...
Well if I can't do it, I'll have to sit and make Christmas cards early.
I don't leave it until the last minute.
I make family cards, I do my own making.
I get the things, I've got the things that I haven't gone on to making though.
I think one day when I'm in I will...
And I knit in blanket squares because my sister said there's no squares to do a blanket.
It will keep you busy while lockdown's on.
And how are you feeling about Christmas coming up?
I know, I can't believe it. They're all full in.
So many days to Christmas.
I say, Shalev!
I go, Vicki ain't saying it's not so long now to Christmas!
Or what's that? And I'm in Shalev and I'll say it.
What do you normally do at Christmas?
I mainly stay on my own.
I used to go to Stephen's part when she was alive.
Your brother.
I used to spend Christmas even come home crossing day.
I used to stay longer when I lived in Canton because I was in Canton and they were in his flat.
And then it was snowing and I thought, I can't walk around in the snow, what am I going to do?
So what do you think is going to happen this year?
I remember when he got out of the taxi and I was down with my feet getting into the path.
The taxi driver was very helpful.
He said she just won't move.
My sister said, oh come on Jan.
So when I was coming home on the voxing day, what morning, she put the great thing down so I could walk okay in the night.
So I did run into getting the taxi for getting home.
Have you seen your sister during this time?
I haven't seen them. They told me I haven't seen them.
Just your brother?
They knocked him out. All this is said, oh it's over.
And how have you found it understanding the rules and everything?
I don't like to understand them.
And any of your friends found it difficult or do you think?
Some friends find it difficult.
No.
Like some of my friends told me, if you want a meal in a restaurant,
if you go by the castle, it's undercover and Deliveroo, delivering a meal to you.
Because you can't sit with a friend in a restaurant.
So if you reach at the castle and you want to go to an order,
if you're at McDonald's they get Deliveroo to send it to the castle to you.
And you're thinking, what are you on about?
So you've not done it?
I've not done it because I never realised, are they telling the truth?
They say they're doing that until you can sit with friends again,
order it through the restaurant and Deliveroo will bring it to you.
So I'm thinking, I'll go there one day and see if they're right.
Have you been...
So you and Andrew, what's going to happen there then?
I don't know, we don't see each other until all this is finished.
So you didn't get to see each other even when things were a bit more relaxed?
No.
So why was that? Why was it you didn't see each other?
Well, because nobody could keep in touch with each other.
Except online or by phone.
But you managed to meet up with some of your friends.
Some of them were local to me in town.
So does he not go into town or anything?
No and again I might.
But does Andrew not go into town?
No, no, because he wouldn't understand what's happening.
Right.
If he goes out he would be with his sister in the car.
So he needs quite a bit of support, does he?
He can't get out himself with the two years in.
I mean I can't because I got the one.
But with two I suppose you can't really.
So he can't go and let his sister or the fiancé take him.
His sister or the fiancé go out.
And then he goes out and he's with his sister.
And then they go out.
So I think it's more difficult for him than for me.
Have you been missing him then or have you been alright?
I don't know.
I've been asking her how he is and she tells me.
Are there any last things then Janice that you would want people to know about the last few months?
There's a lockdown, well, I just think it's what she would have done.
It's over.
Shall we finish up there then?
That's great, thank you.